(UNDER CONSTRUCTION DON'T READ YET)
I took some linguistic courses in my first year. Back then I had big dreams. I imagined travelling to Japan and teaching English to kindergardeners in that most holy land of anime. Or maybe I would travel to some distant corner of Africa, translating the Bible into some obscure, unwritten tribal language, spreading the gospel of the Lord. Well, wherever I would go, it would be better than here, better than staying in boring old Ottawa my whole life! I was going to see something new! 

Unfortunately these dreams soon died as I realized that to follow them I would actually have to TALK to people. At that point in my life, I was not ready for such things. I didn't take any more linguistic courses in second year.

But I don't regret my brief foray into the linguistical. If I hadn't had those dreams, no matter how they turned out, I never would have taken that course on Applied Linguistics. I still think about the things that I learned there, even to this day. 

The professor was especially fond of a certain quote from Bakhtin - "No one breaks the eternal silence of the universe." It means, she explained, that there is nothing that has not already been said. No one's utterance is so utterly unique that it breaks the silence of the universe; instead we simply repeat and repeat what has already been said. This is not a meaning I would have guessed from an initial reading of the phrase, but, I suppose, that is why she has a degree in linguistics and I don't. 

Several years have passed since that time. I did not end up transferring into linguistics as I had once thought I might do - I ended up transferring to computer science instead. My memory of some of the concepts I learned back then begins to grow fuzzy. Yet every now and then I find myself still thinking about this idea: "No one breaks the eternal silence of the universe." 

I like the phrase because it has significance to me. There is a story attached to it, as I have just related to you. And moreover, it seems to me that it perfectly demonstrates all the principles I learned in that course - the first being the enormous capacity of human social groups to create a type of language that excludes. "No one breaks the eternal silence of the universe." It means something special in our class. If you hadn't been there with us, you probably won't understand it. Because how exactly does this phrase mean "what has said has always been said?" All it means (from an initial, simplistic reading) is that nobody is talking! And nobody has ever talked! The world is silent! Which we know isn't even true. But in the context of our class it took on a whole other meaning. It became a catchphrase, a rallying cry. We were going to be tested on it, and we had to comply to the teacher's interpretation if we wanted to pass. So now I am burdened with an interpretation of this phrase which no one else understands. It is meaningful to me but only to me. No one else understands.

But now I am sharing it with you, because the more I think about it, the more I suspect that Bakthin was right.  

No one breaks the eternal silence of the universe! How very true that is! It has taken on mystical qualities in my mind! 

In the beginning, there was nothing. 
In the beginning, there was silence.

The earth was formless and empty, darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And with God, was the Word. The Word was in the beginning with God. Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been made. In that Word is all things that has ever been spoken:  without him there is nothing that has been spoken. All that has been spoken and will be spoken is contained within that Word. 

So there, the phrase contains a Biblical truth. As it was in the beginning, is now and will be forever. For me that makes it believable - maybe others will have trouble believing that. You will have to examine the idea on your own. You can reach your own conclusions.

In the book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon tells us: "What has been will be again, what has been done will be done again; there is nothing new under the sun. Is there anything of which one can say, “Look! This is something new”? It was here already, long ago; it was here before our time."

Yet originality is something highly valued in our culture. We are told from childhood that we are somebody special. Nobody is quite like us. We are expected to go on and accomplish something that nobody has ever accomplished ever before. We celebrate the accomplishments of great men, we immortalize the tales of people with unusual genius. 

There was a game I used to play as a kid, one of those clapping games so popular among little girls. We sat in a circle and clapped our hands, saying:
Concentration(clap clap clap)64(clap clap clap)
No repeats(clap clap clap)
or hesitation!(clap clap clap)
I'll start!(We would all shout this. The loudest one was recognized to have the right to begin)(clap clap clap)
with [category].

Then we would go around in a circle, each one naming something that was within that category. When it was your turn you were expected to say something right away. Otherwise you were out! And it had to be original - otherwise, you were out! 

I used to play that game quite a lot. It inspired within me a quest for novelty. I would never reread a book once I had finished it. No repeats! Or hesitation! I always had to go on to something new!  

The thing was though, I wasn't a genius. I wasn't some kind of natural born savant. It's not that I was stupid - in fact, generally speaking I got good grades without even trying. But compared to someone like Carl Gauss who added all the numbers up to 100 when he was eight years old, my modest B+ in mathematics didn't seem to be worth that much. 

What exactly did I have to add to the world? What exactly would be my astounding contribution? What was the one thing that I had that nobody else had, that justified my existence? Because in the end... why would anyone need me around, if I didn't add anything new? 

But lately I've been thinking. It's not such a big deal to be ordinary. Maybe you don't have to be a genius.

"Oikawa Tooru is not a genius". This was the title of an episode of an anime I once watched. Oikawa Tooru was the captain of the Aoba Josei high school volleyball team. Actually, despite the discouraging title, he is set up as a frighteningly talented individual. He is the "Grand King" of Aoba Josai, a vicious server, a clever strategist and an amazing setter who brings out the best of his team. Then what does this mean, "Oikawa Tooru is not a genius"?! 

But that's just it. He's not a genius. He doesn't have the same natural talent that his kouhai Kageyama does. He is, in the end, an astoundingly average guy. He's a walking stereotype, a typical playboy trope. 

But he is important. 

Aoba Josei is not an extraordinary team. The players are all average. But by bringing out the strengths of these average people to the utmost, Oikawa makes Aoba Josei something to be reckoned with. He might not be technically gifted, but he has worked hard enough and long enough to become a force to be feared. 

Oikawa Tooru is not a genius. Neither am I. But maybe it's alright not to be a genius. Even people who aren't geniuses can become the captain of their vollyeball with enough dedication. All it takes is repetition, the same motions over and over until it becomes engraved in your body. He simply practised, over and over, until it became memory. He repeated the same serve, the same set, over and over, until it became habit. 

I never liked repetition. I took piano lessons when I was young but never practised. I had to walk home from school everyday but I didn't like it. It was boring, seeing the same sights over and over again. I wanted to leave it all behind. I wanted to see something entirely new! 

I used to think that if I spent too much time around a person, they'd grow tired of me. No need to talk to me over and over about the same tired old topics. It's time to move onto something new! I was afraid to get close to people. I kept to myself.

But lately I've been finding out that it's the opposite. The more time you spend around a person, the deeper your understanding becomes. The more time you spend around them the more you realize that their depths can never really be plumbed. Every turn, every conversation, brings new realizations. Our repeated meetings begin to change each other, we become part of each other, in tiny, subtle ways. Our lives are folded into each other.

Even walking home I no longer find so tiresome. The sights of Beaverbrook have become to me like an old friend. I pass by my old high school, the strange pillars which once held a bar to keep out trucks, until it was run over by a truck, the funny looking statue, the tiny patch of forest which my geography professer once claimed contained wolves and I can feel my past overlapping with my present. I think about then and I think about now and I see myself as part of a continuous line. I am walking down the axis of time. 

Taking the bus to work I always pass by the same stops. I have grown to love the quiet meditation of the commute. 

The monks of Cluny would repeat the words of the psalms over and over. They turned the same words over and over in their heart and their mind and their soul. The Word of God is not simply repeated, but inhabited. They dwell within the Word which is Christ. They are together with God who is love. They love and they are loved. 

I tried to memorize the psalms, but only got so far as the third one. But some words stay with me. They say that the one who meditates upon the word of God "is like a tree planted by streams of living water, which bears its fruit in its seasons and its leafs do not wither." Without the living water, the tree would not live. But by continuously drawing, by continuously, repetitively drinking from the stream, the tree prospers and grows strong. 

It is enough to love and be loved. We do not simply love - we must also be loved. We drink in this love like a tree absorbing water from its roots. This love makes us beautiful, a tree which bears fruits in its season. 
to be continued....
